people who are racist or murderers are
considered to be awful by most people
when vegans compare meat-eaters to
murderers that makes the vegans look
insane and outrageous because it's so
far from public opinion and it all
turned so many people away from wanting
to learn more so I watched this video
from Anna's analysis vegans are the
worst thing for veganism and I feel like
it's profoundly missing the point most
of the performances we see by vegans
whether we think of those performances
as protests whether we think of those
performances as education and outreach
whether we think of those performances
as monologues here on YouTube most of
these performances are not aiming at and
are not measuring their success in terms
of converting or convincing meat-eaters
to becoming vegans and I'm going to get
into a little more depth here but just
think about how different any of these
performances would be if the objective
were for me to convince my own mother to
adopt a vegan diet something I have
attempted something many of you in the
audience will have attempted right am I
going to hold a street protest to
veganism yeah we could right now yes
Tarek's in the audience let's all meet
up in front of my mom's place dude
um would I engage in so-called animal
rescue like breaking into a factory and
stealing animals and then you hold those
up like hey hey mom look what I did
you should convert to veganism right the
whole range and including over to this
so-called like soft and friendly modes
of outreach and education here none of
that would convince my own long to
become vegan and my mom has a high level
of interest in what I'm doing with my
life and what I care about what I
believe just cause she's my Muhammed
unroot I'm her son right let alone a
complete stranger on the street society
in general sentence over that is not the
purpose of these performances okay and
therefore the kind of critique offered
by Hanna's analysis it's always going to
be spurious it's always going to be
irrelevant
why do vegans engage in these various
forms of intention attention-getting
behavior in which I would include
someone like earthling ad recording
himself having dialogues with strangers
in the street it's not for those
strangers in the street it's for his
donor base it's for the source of money
in this equation you've got to draw up a
flow chart where you're linking the
performance and the product to the
actual money to the actual income right
what earthling ed is doing is 100%
explicable in terms of revenue
generation think about this in terms of
a university department where you look
at what all the students are doing and
you say look this isn't really
educational what you're doing here
you're just taking these students and
you're putting them in lab coats and
making them do repetitive busy work in
these laboratories so you can pursue
this research agenda hmm
could it be could it be that what this
Department of Science is doing in the
university is not really motivated by
the measurable outcome of how much their
students have learned but it's actually
motivated by the measurable outcome of
applying for grant funding getting that
grant for what you're doing with that
money in terms of scientific right this
is a very common problem
all right the financial incentives in
the university system can completely
subvert the educational purpose that the
department was nominally created for and
nobody there is questioning hey what our
students are actually doing for 10 hours
a day in this lab it's in pursuit of
this research grant funding and this
project which is really about making
money it's a problem so the analysis of
what's right and what's wrong in
veganism like statement so I quote
vegans are the worst thing for being up
what you have to understand is that the
performative elements of veganism
whether they be self control self
congratulatory in tone like vegans
patting themselves on the back and
saying we're so great whether they be
abrasive and violent in tone or even
illegal and talk like you know the whole
range from the soft and friendly over to
the terrifying alright all of these
perform
fences are being done in effect but
preaching to the choir they're being
done by vegans for vegans because
they're being done by the activists in
order to appeal to the donor base that's
where revenue generation comes from
that's the money that fuels the movement
who pays for Earthling ads airplane
tickets who paid for gary yourofsky's
airplane tickets
who puts money in freelee the banana
girls pocket it's a it's a little bit
different in every case it's not the
same answer but whether you're if you
were talking about why does direct
action everywhere why do these street
protesters break into factories and risk
going to prison just to take videotape
footage of it and post about in the
internet all the way over to why does
the same group confront strangers in a
Chipotle restaurant and scream and weep
in front of them about how Meat Is
Murder why that's not being done for the
meat eaters it's being done for the
donors this has to be assessed it has to
be evaluated has to be understood in
terms of a flowchart where the input is
relative to the output where at the end
of the day this is just fundamentally
about revenue generation money fame
power respect sex if you have any
relationships in your life that are not
motivated by these five things that are
based on anything more meaningful or
more profound hold on to them close kid
because this life goes on it seems like
you can't get a goddamn person on the
phone to reply to an email to you if
it's not about those big motivations
money fame power respect sex not
necessarily in that the open rescue
paradigm it was already lame back when
it was clandestine terrorism now it's
the same thing but they want to do it
with the mask off they want to commit
the same crime and they want to brag
about it on the Internet
and they want you to donate money
supporting it it's extremely dangerous
it can land you in prison it is not an
easy thing to do and I would never
recommend to anyone that they do it and
it's it's worse now because now it's
terrorism plus theme whoring okay
terrorism is something you should do
covertly I'm still against it I don't
approve of it but this is like
combination of terrorism with
self-righteous famewhoring if your
motives in rescuing these animals were
so pious why didn't you do it
anonymously
why didn't you do it in a clandestine
manner why didn't you just rescue the
animals which is to say stealing them
the way all other thieves steal in the
night silently in secret if you want to
be Robin Hood Robin Hood he leaves
outside the law maybe you didn't get
that with the story of Robin Hood Robin
Hood and the Sheriff of Nottingham are
not on the same team Robin Hood would
not rob from the rich take a [ __ ]
selfie posted on Instagram and ask his
homies to donate money damn to support
his cause robbing the [ __ ] rich and
giving to the poor this is [ __ ] this
is the worst hypocrisy in that sense
you're worse than terrorists because at
least the [ __ ] terrorists admit
they're terrorists you're terrorists on
the worst kind of self-indulgent ego
trip people don't want to donate money
to a bunch of [ __ ] going up to the
front of a Chipotle and screaming at the
owners and the customers to shut it down
because they serve meat people don't
want to donate money to support you when
you run onto a baseball pitch and try to
interrupt a baseball game holding up a
banner that says justice for the animals
go vegan but the emotional effect of
rescuing these animals and then you got
the tear jerking photos of the animal
being rehabilitated animal sanctuary
that means money don't kid yourself the
reason why one organization after
another moves into the open rescue and
sanctuary game is because of money if
people who are asking in this
incredulous way why would the FBI come
on down on them so hard what why
wouldn't the FBI just treat this like a
house burglar someone who just got drunk
one night
broke into a house trying to steal a TV
set cuz it's really not the same is it
when you commit a crime and you espouse
and you do it with no masks on and you
espouse that you're not ashamed of it
you're proud of it and you're actively
boasting on Instagram you're putting up
those Sophie's it asking for donations
you're doing all that stuff you are
making it completely clear to the
authorities that if they don't stop you
one you will reoffending - you have
followers whom you will inspire whom you
will occurr egde to commit the same
offense again baddest yen video starts
with the starts of the kiss for a change
yeah money politics about money protests
are about money the internet opens up
new avenues for people to pursue a sense
of bank
keep going keep garden no edit okay look
you know think about 1960 and 70s and
80s before the internet getting
newspaper coverage was doubtless crucial
pamphlets sending people information in
the mail was crucial groups like
Greenpeace built up you know huge base
of donors partly just through street
theater and partly through what I would
call stunt protests I personally was at
a protest by Greenpeace where they
climbed the CN Tower or CN tower or at
least used to be the highest structure
in the world one of the tallest
buildings in the world and they cleaned
up the exterior of it ensign they hung
up poster a giant poster saying climate
change is gonna change is gonna mess you
up man yeah you know so this gets news
coverage and news coverage drives
donations and on a deep level some
groups like direct action everywhere I
think are still mimicking that but the
Internet has made it all worse right so
like back in the 80s and 90s and let's
just say the 80s to be safe so we're
really pre-internet right um you know
people used to do the same crap director
she never was doing open rescue aka
cattle-rustling a.k stealing animals
there's love it's probably they used to
do it wearing a mask they used to do it
in secret they used to as a clandestine
operation that was what they called
Animal Liberation uh what happens to the
animals after that is another story
right like okay so you're gonna liberate
but you've won a flock of sheep think
that through what that really means like
in a crowded country like England's now
you got sheep literally living in the
downtown apartments of animal rights
protests in the LF I've seen that a
documentary I've seen that where they
had the Sheep like next to their living
room table pet yeah not joking yeah yeah
it's something that was that was
documentary done they had an undercover
journalist joined the al F and get
involved in that kind of extremist stuff
and like when he was going to visit
people's house oh yeah we still have
these sheep from the open rescue we did
at the end of a liberation we did two
months ago or something yeah like oh
yeah gee how big is your backyard do you
think you can take on one of these
Scheepers land of course it's illegal to
write like both cities you can't keep it
for your backyard
anyway yeah
that is you can't even keep backyard
hens right yeah
sure without a permit or something yeah
sure of it and guess why all those
animals spread unbelievably horrible
contagious diseases to yours they spread
horrible contagious diseases to one
another and to people so it's no joke
including your cat great article in The
Atlantic Monthly called your cat is
driving you crazy I think I must have
sent you this article it was when I was
in America and it was a neighboring town
from where I was living in they were
campaigning to try to get back here a
tends to be legal legal because they
were illegal in the town that they were
living in and it was just funny hearing
their arguments for backyard hens yeah
no they had to do with cruelty to
animals and like this is this is a way
to not be cruelty Yeah right
just keep it in a wooden box from the
day it's fortunate it's died cruel above
that just just anyway the open rescue
paradigm it was already lame back when
it was clandestine terrorism now it's
the same thing but they want to do it
with the mask off they want to commit
the same crime and they want to brag
about on the internet and they want you
to donate money supporting it so to me
like you know if you talk about videos
in the internet words to people having a
fist fight
okay that's lame but if it's just
anonymous if it's just put up - one
thing if it's two people having a fist
fight and they want you to donate money
this is fist fight for charity or this
is you know what I mean and they got
their nema and they're promoting
themselves it's worse it's worse I feel
like the open rescue paradigm it's got
it was lame to begin with I thought it
was [ __ ] back when the al F did it
with the mass on and it's it's worse now
because now it's terrorism plus theme
whoring okay terrorism is something you
should do covertly I'm still against it
I don't approve of it but this is like
combination of terrorism with
self-righteous famewhoring and they
really want to sit there in front like
they haven't committed
crime when they know they have Wayans
young is a lawyer he knows exactly which
laws he broke and I mean I guess from
his perspective it's just a cost-benefit
analysis where he thinks the outcomes of
the famewhoring are so desirable like
how much promotion can we get how many
donations can we get as opposed to how
many days am I gonna spend in prison
that he just thinks it's worth it like
okay spend a month in prison or that I
see a lot of people making excuses for
this Mike the vegan suggested that what
they did in their little terrorism cell
was in fact no different from undercover
journalism yes it is Mike it's different
it's different from undercover drills
you want to explain to you how you want
as well you go it's very very important
that journalists that independent
journalists be allowed to go in there
and film what is happening and I think
that also includes people like the SEM
when a journalist applies for a job and
just doesn't explain that they're also a
part-time journalist when a journalist
applies for a job in a meatpacking
Factory in a slaughterhouse and then
goes in and does that job and then
writes about it afterwards or secretly
films at efforts that is completely
different from breaking and entering and
stealing animals okay speaking of DXE
will there be any repercussions for the
rescuers will this become a lawsuit and
will this become a animal Enterprise
Terrorism Act situation as the news
outlet RT has mentioned and those
responsible are likely to face some
serious charges as well under the animal
Enterprise Terrorism Act
breaking and entering into a business
and just filming what that business does
on the inside is already a crime and
already does damages that's where it
gets to the millions of dollars in
damages oh well you filmed our private
operations that's a big part of their
their legal claim I can totally manage
that my parents business knows growing
up as a kid if someone broke in and went
through the file folders and took
photographs and took film footage or
something they could really easily do
damage that for example results in a
multi-million dollar contract being
cancelled like okay you had this
break-in and then someone took footage
of it and put it on the internet and
caused an embarrassment one of your
clients is the government of Saudi
Arabia now the government of Saudi
Arabia cancelled their contract with you
multi-million dollar contract so now
that group who broke in whatever their
political motive a
now you could say to them look you
didn't millions of dollars damage to me
that's how business works so that's how
breaking that during works and it's not
undercover journalism you don't think
there's a difference you're undercover
journalism and what they did here look I
mean you know you can say your motives
are pious if your motives in rescuing
these animals were so pious why didn't
you do it anonymously why didn't you do
it in a clandestine manner why didn't
you just rescue the animals which is to
say stealing them the way all other
thieves steal in the night silently in
secret if you want to be Robin Hood
Robin Hood he leaves outside the law
maybe you didn't get that with the story
of Robin Hood Robin Hood and the Sheriff
of Nottingham are not on the same team
Robin Hood would not rob from the rich
take a [ __ ] selfie posted on
Instagram and ask his homies to donate
money damn to support his cause robbing
the [ __ ] rich and giving to the poor
this is [ __ ] this is the worst
hypocrisy in that sense you're worse
than terrorists because at least the
[ __ ] terrorists admit they're
terrorists you're terrorists on the
worst kind of self-indulgent ego trip
easy easy so we see why my girlfriend
doesn't get to stay much these videos I
I hate this crap and I can't believe
anyone's anyone's drawn in by Maude
vegan in her video which was Pro DXE she
was praising this she said even though
she would never do something like this
herself ethically that's still she felt
she had supported you know that's a real
hint we talk about that as vegans all
the time if you because meat-eaters say
well I wouldn't slaughter a pig myself
but they're willing to eat bacon by that
same talk that sat int there's something
you got to examine there oh oh really
you wouldn't do break and entering
yourself you wouldn't Steve who you
pardon me you wouldn't steal livestock
from a factory yourself really and yet
and yet you approve of this what why do
you think that is it's extremely
dangerous it can land you in prison it
is not an easy thing to do and I would
never recommend to anyone
do it because I think that it's it is a
very very dangerous thing to do it can
really ruin your life if you get caught
and go to prison for these things but I
deeply support DXE for doing it I think
it's fantastic why would you approve it
for someone else to do that not not
yourself yeah and in my begins I'm not
trying to hate you know she said we
should stand up and support DXE sure I
talked to her literally last night by
the way yeah I know if you want to we
could segue into that dxc just put out
there forty year plan their plan for the
next four here's the vegan movement and
you know on one level I can just
appreciate the raw ambition of that
they're trying to be leaders of the
vegan movement I think they're not aware
of the extent to which they're failing
I'm you know they're trying they're
trying to put forward a vision for the
next four years thing one I don't think
they're gonna be the leaders of the
moment I don't need to be so I raise
this okay let's talk about paths to
power in vegan politics politics means
money money plus action equals politics
there you know you want to run for the
Green Party running for the Green Party
cost money you know any of these things
this is the brutal reality of politics
in the real world is politics can happen
only when you have a donor base to
support your pursuit of those political
goals even if it's just getting on a bus
and going and handing out leaflets I met
a guy who did that as his job for peda
he was a full-time pet employee and he
dress up like a cow and hand out
pamphlets on school campus it's going
coast-to-coast in America that was his
paid job but it still costs money
you name a that's cheap all these things
cause money how do you get money into
the vegan movement well the number one
source of money there's no doubt right
now is animal sanctuaries and you can
get even more money in support when you
link it to these are really salacious
you know animal rescue videos that moves
people emotionally and then they were
respond by donating financially just
look I've been watching DXE these last
three years four years something like
that
I forget how long yeah basically four
years and I've seen how their modus
operandi has changed their mo has
changed they're doing more and more the
things that get them money and they
veered away
from the things that don't people don't
want to donate money to a bunch of
[ __ ] going up to the front of a
Chipotle and screaming at the owners and
the customers to shut it down because
they serve meat Chipotle is the only
decent vegan option in a lot of American
cities people don't want to donate money
to support you when you run onto a
baseball pitch and try to interrupt a
baseball game holding up a banner that
says justice for the animals go vegan
people just don't some do a couple
people will donate money that not that
many right so they veered people did not
want to donate money to support your
legal costs after you ran on stage and
tried to interrupt Bernie Sanders they
also tried to interrupt Hillary Clinton
you know and then now you're in the
clink cuz the Secret Service bag you up
and handcuff you and now you've got
legal fees and possible prison time
whatever people don't want to donate
money for the kind of Street Theater but
the emotional effect of rescuing these
animals and then you got the
tear-jerking photos of the animal being
rehabilitated an animal sanctuary that
means money don't kid yourself the
reason why one organization after
another moves into the open rescue and
sanctuary game is because of money
full-stop okay so that's one road to
power and a lot of organizations done it
successfully I think go vegan world
started off in Ireland with a sanctuary
is a powerful example of that they had
this sanctuary they did fundraising the
business century that moved on number
two I'd say is food food services in the
broadest sense whether it's a packaged
product like a chocolate bar running a
restaurant what have you and that road
to power is already starting to produce
multi-millionaire successful business
tycoons who are early adopters of
veganism so the guy who owns Hampton
Creek I don't even know who's the
millionaire behind Daiya who's the
millionaire behind the cliff bars you
mean Vega Vega has a charismatic
millionaire - that guy's a vegan
performance yeah protein powder they
make protein bars and stuff like that -
right so all these all these companies
have respectable CEOs millionaire
impresario executives those guys have a
certain kind of political credibility a
certain kind of weight you tell me now
there are
there are other roads developer there
are other ways to get over ties there
are other ways to get financial backing
for a vegan movement you tell me who do
you want your name attached to do you
want your name attached to Wayne and
Priya and their shitty undemocratic
backstabbing self-destructive little
disruption based movement do you want
your business to be linked to Wayne and
Priya as they face terrorism charges
again and again is that who you want to
cooperate with or would you rather
cooperate with daya incorporated Hampton
Creek Incorporated any of these vegan or
semi vegan companies that are in a very
direct and obvious which is or maybe
your local vegan restaurant maybe a
vegan supermarket maybe a vegan dessert
company whatever it is the food services
and delos for-profit side of the game
both are problematic they're problematic
in different ways I think that the
aspects of the political movement that
are more corporate are going to have
some characteristics that are very
different from the aspects that are
explicitly political groups like PCRM
groups that are explicitly medical etc
etc there's gonna be diversity there
you're smelling you want to jump in I
don't know what that smell means what I
think this should say look the only
thing I want to know I feel stiff I
already did 700 videos on this channel
which is me giving a monologue so I so
sometimes she feels like a member of the
audience even when she's on camera tells
you something look
why were these charges so serious I
think Mike the vegan is lying to you
about that I think in effect mod vegan
is lying to herself about that
fundamentally in law enforcement the
most important question is propensity to
Rhea fend for because these are
politically motivated crimes by people
who openly espouse that there's nothing
wrong with committing those
the people committing these crimes have
committed the same crimes before talking
about Wayne thought with the leader of
director general Wayne and Priya and
they're openly espousing that they're
gonna do them again and they're
encouraging others to them again so if
people who were asking in this
incredulous way why would the FBI come
on down on them so hard what why
wouldn't the FBI just treat this like a
house burglar someone who just got drunk
one night and broke into a house trying
to steal a TV set because it's really
not the same is it it's really not
there's really a very good reason why
this isn't treated the same way as say
you know a political protesters who
maybe do some damage to a public park
during a protest that's very common just
mention the own political protest that's
a that's a legal problem they often run
into but where they didn't really intend
to and they didn't espouse that as a
good thing that it said well we're
trying to do this political protest in
the park we're sorry we broke the
fountain or whatever was something got
damaged
we broke the public restrooms or
something because we had too many people
the protest that happens okay it's in no
way comprable that this is being
persecuted as terrorism because of the
propensity to Rhea fend you commit a
crime and you espouse and you do it with
no mask on and you espouse that you're
not ashamed of it you're proud of it and
you're actively boasting on Instagram
you're putting up those selfies that
asking for donations you're doing all
that stuff you are making it completely
clear to the authorities that if they
don't stop you one you will reoffending
two you have followers whom you will
inspire whom you will occurr egde to
commit the same offense again so from my
perspective this is a massive exercise
in self delusion you want to pretend
this is the same as under country
journalism it's not you want to pretend
this is the same as some kind of minor
crime like accidentally breaking
someone's window like minor damage to
property it's not if you break someone's
window accidentally what's your
propensity to Rhea fend it
the reason why this is taken so serious
of the FBI is precisely compensatory
offend guys if you want to play these
games I give this same advice to my
daughter like if my daughter asked me
daddy I want to commit a murder I'd say
to her look let me let me let me tell
you something let me tell you something
sweetie every day something
you want to commit a murder you don't
ask me for advice you don't ask your mom
for advice
you know em for advice and what you
don't do is take out your cell phone
take a picture of yourself put it on the
internet and ask for donations okay some
things in this life you want adores
criminal methods if you want to endorse
working outside the law if you want to
be Robin Hood then you're not cool with
the Sheriff of Nottingham these are two
different paths in life either you're
doing something clandestine or you're
doing something overtly democratic
participatory political where you can
hold your head up high and ask for
donations knowing that you're both
within the law and you know that your
morality cannot be impugned all right
DXE direct actually everywhere is an
experiment and in the final analysis I
think it will be judged an experiment in
futility